---
title: Reflecting on a Software Engineering Master's Degree
date: '2016-11-03 21:31:00'
layout: post
---
**The Descision**

The age old question of whether or not one should advance on to graduate school and if it is worth the time/money will always be subjective. It depends on the context of the situation that the person is in. There are a slew of question to ask oneself when considering graduate school.  Working a job as a front end developer, doing mostly graphic design, I found myself at a job that wasn't fulfilling my aspirations of becoming a full stack developer.  My decision to go  to graduate school stemmed from my desire to be more technically knowledgeable. The decision came about when talking to my wife(then girlfriend at the time) at a small diner over breakfast. Discussing issues at my current job and how I wasn't 100% happy, I mentioned that I was considering it, and she persuaded me that it would open me up for other opportunities. I couldn't thank her for being more right. My mind was set, I was going to go for my masters degree in software engineering.

My undergraduate degree was a Bachelors of Science in Information Systems and Technology. For people outside of the technology community, IT is more of on the side of using/developing technology for businesses than it is "engineering". Applying for a software engineering masters degree with a background like mine was very intimidating. Most things I knew about engineering was self taught for things that I needed to know for personal projects outside of school. One thing I knew applying to the program was that I was going from undergraduate Penn State to graduate Penn State, so the people reviewing my application would know the exact curriculum that I had in undergrad, so I took comfort in that thought.